So the next thing we're gonna talk
about is a topic that comes up a lot
as our app starts to grow and scale.
Which is you can imagine that over time as
your app has different pages and stuff,
you're probably gonna have
different ways to format it, right?
And so your first instinct when you're
doing that is to probably add different
style classes to different pages,
but at some point, you're
going to end up with this weird thing
where like some pages need this layout.
Some people pages needs this layout.
And there's only so
many V ifs you can do and
your app dot view before is
just like spaghetti code.
So there's got to be a better way, right.
And yes, there is when we asked you
this question, if there wasn't but
nothing came up with a very
intuitive way of working on this.
And that is with as you
would probably have guessed,
the layouts folder once again, I keep
accidentally creating it on the root, but
it should belong inside of our directory.
And what the layout component is, if you
think about it is we talked before we're
apt is at the pinnacle is at the top of
everything so once you included an app,
it drops down everything.
Think of layouts as like that middle
layer between the pages and app.view.
And so the first thing you're gonna wanna
create when you create your layouts is
there's default.view.
And as you might have guessed this is the
default layer that everything inherits.
So if there's nothing in here nothing
will happen but for now just for
the sake of argument we're just gonna go
ahead and we're just gonna make sure we
have a class title is primary for
example, it's a default layout.
So just by having this layout in here,
we'll notice nothing's really changing.
And the reason for that is if you look at
our default view page, there's nowhere for
the patient actually dropped its content.
Remember we did that the same
thing when next page,
like how do we tell Knucks
we need to drop content in.
Well, we've had a lot of
practice with this at this point.
Okay, and
what we need is we need to give it a slot.
Because that's how we know like, hey for
the content using this default layout,
drop it in this particular area.
So now that it has a slot here,
it should look better going forward.
But I wonder if it's gonna crash.
No, that's good.
Layouts default.
Yep, yep, yep.
That should be it.
So let me go ahead and
check something real quick.
We're gonna go inside the pages index.
And let's go ahead and actually define
the layout real quick and go like this.
So now if we go home,
there you go, that is much better.
Okay, so it looks like by default without
actually wrapping anything in the next
layout component, it will actually skip
the layouts directory at this time.
But the moment you wanna actually use
the layout, you can just wrap it here and
this is the default one will apply
as we saw with default layout.
But obviously, we're here to
talk about custom layouts, and
it was just the one we really
wouldn't need this solution at all.
So let's say for example,
we want a specific display layout,
then we can basically
do a display dot view.
And similarly, I'll just copy
the default one here, just so
that it's a little bit easier.
We can definitely say this is
going to be the display layout.
And the way you do this is that what we
can do is go inside of display and so
any page that we wanna use this specific
layout, we can basically wrap the display.
So in this case,
we're gonna do it inside of here.
We can wrap it with this
native next layout.
Component just like we saw earlier, but
the difference being is
that we do name=display.
And now you see this
is the default layout.
Photo wait hold up there you go.
Now this is the display layout,
home and display.
And so it's basically just a simple
technique to be an intermediary Between
your app to your pages,
that's how you should see layouts.
Otherwise they're honestly
fairly straightforward.
There's not much more
complexity beyond that.
They act like normal components, so you
can customize the nav bar to that specific
page if you have like specific call
to actions, that kind of stuff.
That's basically all it's there for and
it's one of those things where you'll
probably grow into the problem.
You don't need to necessarily,
anticipate it in advance.
So as your site grows, you start to
notice the layout starts to shift,
then you can go ahead and
start using this.
So just a high level technique that
I want you all to be aware of.